On the basis of which she can deny the claim, so
porting is a very risky task. Now here
when you declare the history, then the
company again decides whether it wants to accept
your proposal with that history
or not.
Hello, welcome to my channel.
Should you port or not, should you
port your medical insurance health insurance policy? I get a lot of
questions.
Many customers ask me that I
want to port, what is your suggestion?
Look, whatever you decide
about porting, it can be your individual decision, it can be
according to your individual circumstances,
so take the decision only after understanding that.
I will share two-three cases with you
and you just think whether
he should port in this situation or not. The
first case is of a gentleman who is 40
years old and his assisting policy
is from a government company, under which his
room rent is capped and the [ __ ] bonus
increases by 10% maximum.  It goes up to 100%, it will take 10
years to achieve 100%
and the restoration benefit is
very limited, considering all these things,
he wants to port it but
his health condition is that he has thyroid, he has
high cholesterol and is overweight. The
second scenario is of our
aunt who is 69 years old and her
agent is insisting her to
port the policy and he says
that there is a problem in the insurance company under her assisting policy
and there are some restrictions in her policy also,
so take a new policy, take it from
another company,
take another product in which she will
not face any restrictions. The third case is of a
lady who has taken insurance from a very reputed company
but her
renewal is due now and the agent is not responding,
considering this, she
wants to port her policy, somewhere in her mind there
is a doubt that if the agent is not responding today then it may happen at the
time of claim.  It is that
they have to face more challenges.
In these three situations, what do you think, should
they port or not?
Well, this is a
decision that needs to be taken after careful consideration and to take this decision,
two-three things are very important
which should be understood. First of all,
why do you want to port? See, in
most of the cases under porting, the
reason is that the premium has increased, hence you
want to port or the benefits in the policy are
less. Nowadays, many good
innovative benefits are available and you want to avail them
or you faced a problem in the claim services in your policy.
Another reason could be
that your agent says get it ported. After
looking at these four situations in detail,
you should decide whether you want to port
or not. For that, it is
important for you to understand what porting is.
See, whenever you take health insurance,
some diseases are not covered from the first day.
Those which are called specified diseases
or specified treatment, they are
covered after 2 years or 3 years.
Similarly, the disease that you already have is
called a pre-assisting disease
and it gets covered after three years. So,
when you port, your
waiting period ends, which means that a
new policy is not considered; it
continues in continuity and you do
not have to go through this waiting period that has ended. There is
no waiting period again in your new policy.
But remember that whenever you port,
this
pre-assisting disease is already covered in your assisting company. The
waiting period has reduced or has ended.
When you go to a new company,
that proposal form is filled afresh. When
that proposal form is filled afresh,
you have to declare your entire history in it.
Now, here when you
declare your history, the company decides again whether it
wants to accept your proposal with that history
or not.
By chance, you may miss something in that history
or something else.  In cases where your agent or
intermediary tells you to
let it go, saying there's
no need to declare it. In the future, if a claim arises
and it's highlighted, whether it's
related to the claim or not, the company has the
right to claim a breach of good faith, based on
which it can deny the claim.
Porting is a very risky undertaking. If you're
healthy and young,
consider porting. However, if you've already
developed some complication, whether
minor or major,
be very careful while porting.
Port only after declaring all these things. Otherwise,
you may face problems with your claim. If
your reason for porting is servicing, or you're
not getting service from the company, or your claim is
challenging, then hold off. What's
cheap today could become
expensive tomorrow, as
companies periodically revise their premiums according to IIDA regulations. The
third scenario could be
that you need a better plan.  If your
policy has become old or has fewer
benefits and you want better benefits, then in
that case you have another option. It is a
very good option, it is called
migration. So, check whether the company
under which your policy is running has
launched any new product or if there is a
better product which provides better
benefits, then you should get your policy
migrated to another product within the same company instead of porting to another company.
However, if you feel that you need to do porting, then do it
carefully and do it with complete 100% declaration
so that you do not face any problem at the time of claim.
Although porting says that
your waiting period has been waived, but
you are also made to fill out a proposal form at the time of porting
and the
porting is being done on the basis of that proposal form. If
you have missed something in that proposal form, then you
may have to suffer the consequences. So keep in
mind, be careful while porting;
it is not as simple as it
appears.  So be careful and
upload it with complete details.
If you like the video then like it and
comment. If you have any other question then you
can ask that too.
Share it with your friends and family
so that they can also benefit from this video. If you are
new to the channel then subscribe and
press the bell icon so that whatever update
comes to you first. Life is beautiful, you are lucky and
God is kind. Thank you very much. Enjoy
yourself.